Nelson Mandela was a lawyer. He studied law at the University of Fort Hare, the first university center to accept people of color in South Africa, and in 1952 he established the country's first law firm of color.

Thanks to the values ​​he represented, Mandela received around 50 honorary doctorates from different universities around the world.

His fighting spirit made him one of the most important leaders in the history of the Youth League of the African National Congress (ANC), which he chaired.

In the mid-1950s he was arrested along with 155 other people and tried for high treason. It was prisoner 466/64, that is, prisoner 466 of the year 1964. This number is today a world symbol of freedom: for example, in 2002, the Nelson Mandela Foundation created a campaign called 46664 to raise awareness about the HIV

In 1962, the CIA notified South Africa of Mandela's location, after which he was imprisoned for 27 years.

During his long stint in prison he had secret conversations with Frederik de Klerk, the President of South Africa. It was thanks to these that he managed to be released.

In 1994, when 20 million South Africans were able to exercise their right to vote for the first time, Nelson Mandela was chosen as the country's first black president.

The former president's original name is Rolihlahla Mandela, which means "pulling a tree branch", "disturbing." He was named Nelson at school when he was 7 years old. Another of the names by which he is known is Madiba, since he belonged to the Madiba clan, of the Xhosa ethnic group.

It would not be until 2008, when the US decides to remove Nelson Mandela from the list of suspected terrorists.

During his time in prison, the apartheid regime offered him parole six times. But he turned down every offer. In 1969, the South African secret service tried to assassinate him by inventing a false escape operation, but British intelligence foiled that operation.

In the 70s, Mandela wrote his memoirs and buried them in the orchard where he cultivated in prison, with the aim of publishing them one day, but the administration discovered them when they carried out some works and from that moment the privilege was withdrawn. of the study.

He was married three times. In 1944 with Evelyn Mase Ntoko for 13 years, later he married Winnie Madikizela in 1958 and they divorced in 1996, after 38 years of marriage. Finally, in 1998, at the age of 80, he married Graça Machel, the widow of a former president of Mozambique. Nelson Mandela had 6 children, 17 grandchildren, and 16 great-grandchildren at the time of his death. One of his sons died of AIDS, so he was very involved in the fight against this disease.

In addition to being a lawyer and an activist for equality and human rights, Mandela was fond of boxing, a Christian religion and had a great sense of humor. She starred in a funny anecdote when she met the Spice Girls and said, "This is one of the best moments of my life."

The Harlem Globetrotters and the Manchester United club have declared him a member of honor. It has its own nuclear particle, the "Mandela Nelson", discovered in 1973 by physicists at the University of Leeds. Mandela also names a prehistoric species of woodpeckers, the “Australopicus nelsonmandelai”, and an orchid, the “Nelson Mandela paravender”.

The Central Bank of South Africa issued a banknote with his face in 2012 in recognition of his work for the country. In addition, South African Airways, the largest airline in South Africa, has Mandela's silhouette drawn on its planes.
